In this video, we're
going to look at
some Excel functions
that will help
us clean up text data and
even convert the case.
The column we're going to be
focusing on is the column E,
which has the invoice
or credit information.
You'll notice there are
some strange characters in
there that we've got what
looks like extra spaces,
and the cases are a bit of a mix.
Zara needs to tidy this all up.
The first thing
she wants to do is
get rid of those
weird characters.
The function we're going to
use is the CLEAN function.
Excel's CLEAN function
is quite specific.
It is designed to remove
the first 32 non-printing
characters in the ASCII table.
These characters
typically come through
as spaces and we get them in
our data when we import or
download data from
an external system.
They can cause problems,
so it is really important
that we clean them up.
Good news is, it's
very easy to do.
So back in our supply
invoice statement,
we're going to clean
up the data in column E
We're going to start
by using the Type column.
So where we've got P2,
can you type equals and
"cl" for clean, and tab.
The CLEAN only
needs one argument,
and that's the texts
that we want clean up.
So I'm going to click on
E2 and press "Enter".
When I double-clicks
to copy down,
all those strange non-printing
characters have been removed.
You will notice
though that there are
still what looks
like extra spaces.
So the space is ASCII character
32 that is not removed
by the CLEAN function.
If we want to get rid of a space,
we need to use Excel's
TRIM function.
Now, TRIM doesn't
remove all spaces,
it only removes extra spaces.
What we mean by that is,
leading spaces, they
come before the text,
trailing spaces which come
at the end of the text,
and where you have more than
one space between the text.
So first name space,
surname, the space
will not be removed.
But if there were two spaces,
the second one would.
Let's see how we apply
the TRIM function.
So what we're going to do now
is TRIM our cleaned data.
So double-click into P2,
come before the equals and the C,
and type t, r,
i, and tab to select TRIM.
Now we have two functions,
two sets of brackets.
We must put our last bracket in.
When we click "Enter" and again,
copy down, all those extra
spaces have been removed.
People often type in
extra spaces as well.
So that's a really
useful function to
make sure that they
aren't extra spaces.
One last thing we need to do now
is get all the case
looking consistent.
We don't want this mixture
of upper and lower.
There are three functions
that will allow
us to change the case in Excel.
They are UPPER, which converts
everything to uppercase,
LOWER, which converts
everything to lowercase,
and PROPER, which converts
the first letter of each word to
uppercase and everything
else to lowercase.
So that's ideal for
names and addresses.
But this data, we'd like
it all to be uppercase.
So we're going to come in
to P2 and double-click.
We want to take this whole thing,
the result from our
TRIM and make it upper.
So we're going to wrap
it in an UPPER function.
So just between the
equals and the T,
we're going to type "up" and tab.
Don't forget to close
your last bracket
again, and press "Enter".
The first one was
already uppercase,
but when I double-clicked
to copy down,
all my data is now
uppercase and that's
looking fantastic.
So quite a few functions
we've looked at here.
We've looked at CLEAN,
we're getting rid of the first
32 non-printing characters, TRIM,
which gets rid of extra spaces,
and then our three functions
for changing case,
which were UPPER,
LOWER, and PROPER.
In the next video, we're
going to have a look
at some Excel functions
that will help us
get rid of characters
that TRIM and
CLEAN can't help us
with. So keep watching.